Bjarne Stroustrup created C++ in 1979 when he was only 29 years old.
He was working at Bell Labs and needed a programming language
to help him maintain clusters of Unix servers.
He wanted a programming language with
both the high level features of languages like Simula and
the raw speed of C. So he created a language that he called C with classes.
C with classes had features like classes and
also strong types but maintain the lightning fast speed of the C programming language.
C++ as he later renamed it took off and eventually was adopted by
the International Standards Organization which created
an ISO standard governing the C++ programming language.
That means that C++ is not controlled by any one person but rather by
a standards body that meets regularly
to map out the future of the C++ programming language.
In 2011, the C++ Standards Committee
released C++11 which was a major update to the programming language standard.
C++11 turned C++ into
a truly modern programming language that has both the elegance and ease of
development that we associate with modern programming languages while
maintaining the raw performance that C++ has always had.
Bjarne Stroustrup remains involved in
the C++ programming language to this day as a member of the ISO standards committee,
and he'll be teaching you throughout this program about
the different facilities of the C++ programming language